[DOCS] Add a new Hudi Architectural Stack page (#10624)
apache/hudi: website/docs/hudi_stack.md

![Hudi Stack](/assets/images/blog/hudistack/hstck.png)
_Figure: Apache Hudi Architectural stack_

# Lake Storage
The storage layer is where the data files (such as Parquet) are stored. Hudi interacts with the storage layer through the [Hadoop FileSystem API](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/api/org/apache/hadoop/fs/FileSystem.html), enabling compatibility with various systems including HDFS for fast appends, and various cloud stores such as Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), and Azure Blob Storage. Additionally, Hudi offers its own storage APIs that can rely on Hadoop-independent file system implementation to simplify the integration of various file systems. Hudi adds a custom wrapper filesystem that lays out the foundation for improved storage optimizations.

# File Formats
![File Format](/assets/images/blog/hudistack/file_format.png)
_Figure: File format structure in Hudi_

> File formats hold the raw data and are physically stored on the lake storage. Hudi operates on a 'base file and log file' structure. The base files are compacted and optimized for reads and are augmented with log files for efficient append. Future updates aim to integrate diverse formats like unstructured data (e.g., JSON, images), and compatibility with different storage layers in event-streaming, OLAP engines, and warehouses. Hudi's layout scheme encodes all changes to a log file as a sequence of blocks (data, delete, rollback). By making data available in open file formats (such as Parquet), Hudi enables users to bring any compute engine for specific workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File formats hold the raw data and are physically stored on the lake storage. Hudi operates on logical structures of File Groups and File Slices, which consist of Base File and Log Files. Base Files are compacted and optimized for reads and are augmented with Log Files for efficient append. Future updates aim to integrate diverse formats like unstructured data (e.g., images), and compatibility with different storage layers in event-streaming, OLAP engines, and warehouses. Hudi's layout scheme encodes all changes to a Log File as a sequence of blocks (data, delete, rollback). By making data available in open file formats (such as Parquet), Hudi enables users to bring any compute engine for specific workloads.
```

Reviewer: @dipankarmazumdar can you also fix all occurrences for File Group, File Slice, Base File, Log File, etc to align on the casing, indicating these are hudi specific terms

- **Metadata Table** : Implemented as a merge-on-read table, Hudi's [metadata table](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/next/metadata) efficiently handles quick updates with low write amplification. It leverages the HFile format for quick, indexed key lookups, storing vital information like file paths, column statistics, bloom filters, and record indexes. This approach streamlines operations by reducing the necessity for expensive cloud file listings. The metadata table in Hudi acts as an additional [indexing system](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/metadata#supporting-multi-modal-index-in-hudi) to uplevel the read and write performance.

Hudi’s approach of recording updates into log files is more efficient and involves low merge overhead than systems like Hive ACID, where merging all delta records against all base files is required. Read more about the various table types in Hudi [here](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/table_types).

## Indexes
![Indexes](/assets/images/blog/hudistack/index_2.png)
_Figure: Indexes in Hudi_

> [Indexes](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/indexing) in Hudi enhance query planning, minimizing I/O, speeding up response times and providing faster writes with low merge costs. Hudi’s [metadata table](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/next/metadata/#metadata-table-indices) brings the benefits of indexes generally to both the readers and writers. Compute engines can leverage various indexes in the metadata table, like file listings, column statistics, bloom filters and record-level indexes to quickly generate optimized query plans and improve read performance. In addition to metadata table indexes, Hudi supports Simple, Bloom, HBase, and Bucket indexes, to efficiently locate the file group containing a specific record key. Hudi also provides reader indexes such as [functional](https://github.com/apache/hudi/blob/master/rfc/rfc-63/rfc-63.md) and secondary indexes to boost reads. The table partitioning scheme in Hudi is consciously exploited for implementing global and non-global indexing strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Indexes](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/indexing) in Hudi enhance query planning, minimizing I/O, speeding up response times and providing faster writes with low merge costs. Hudi’s [metadata table](https://hudi.apache.org/docs/next/metadata/#metadata-table-indices) brings the benefits of indexes generally to both the readers and writers. Compute engines can leverage various indexes in the metadata table, like file listings, column statistics, bloom filters, record-level indexes, and [functional indexes](https://github.com/apache/hudi/blob/master/rfc/rfc-63/rfc-63.md) to quickly generate optimized query plans and improve read performance. In addition to the metadata table indexes, Hudi supports Simple, Bloom, HBase, and Bucket indexes, to efficiently locate File Groups containing specific record keys. The table partitioning scheme in Hudi is consciously exploited for implementing global and non-global indexing strategies.
```

## Metaserver*
![Metaserver](/assets/images/blog/hudistack/metaserver.png)
_Figure: Proposed Metaserver in Hudi_

Storing table metadata on lake storage, while scalable, is less efficient than RPCs to a scalable meta server. Hudi addresses this with its metadata server, called "metaserver," an efficient alternative for managing table metadata for a large number of tables. Currently, the timeline server, embedded in Hudi's writer processes, uses a local rocksDB store and [Javalin](https://javalin.io/) REST API to serve file listings, reducing cloud storage listings. Since version 0.6.0, there's a trend towards standalone timeline servers, aimed at horizontal scaling and improved security. These developments are set to create a more efficient lake [metastore](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HUDI-3345) for future needs.

# Programming APIs

## Writers

> Hudi tables can be used as sinks for Spark/Flink pipelines and the Hudi writing path provides several enhanced capabilities over file writing done by vanilla parquet/avro sinks. It categorizes write operations into incremental (insert, upsert, delete) and batch/bulk (insert_overwrite, delete_partition, bulk_insert) with specific functionalities. Upsert and delete efficiently merge records with identical keys and integrate with the file sizing mechanism, while insert operations smartly bypass certain steps like pre-combining, maintaining pipeline benefits. Similarly, Bulk_insert operation offers control over file sizes for data imports. Batch operations integrate MVCC for seamless transitions between incremental and batch processing. Additionally, the write pipeline includes optimizations like handling large merges via rocksDB and concurrent I/O, enhancing write performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hudi tables can be used as sinks for Spark/Flink pipelines and the Hudi writing path provides several enhanced capabilities over file writing done by vanilla parquet/avro sinks. It categorizes write operations into incremental (`insert`, `upsert`, `delete`) and batch/bulk (`insert_overwrite`, `delete_partition`, `bulk_insert`) with specific functionalities. `upsert` and `delete` efficiently merge records with identical keys and integrate with the file sizing mechanism, while `insert` operations smartly bypass certain steps like pre-combining, maintaining pipeline benefits. Similarly, `bulk_insert` offers control over file sizes for data imports. Batch operations integrate MVCC for seamless transitions between incremental and batch processing. Additionally, the write pipeline includes optimizations like handling large merges via rocksDB and concurrent I/O, enhancing write performance.
```

## Query Engines

> Apache Hudi is compatible with a wide array of query engines, catering to various analytical needs. For distributed ETL batch processing, Apache Spark is frequently utilized, leveraging its efficient handling of large-scale data. In the realm of streaming use cases, compute engines such as Apache Flink and Spark Structured Streaming provide robust support when paired with Hudi. Moreover, Hudi supports modern data lake query engines such as Trino and Presto, as well as modern analytical databases such as ClickHouse and StarRocks. This diverse support of compute engines positions Apache Hudi as a flexible and adaptable platform for a broad spectrum of use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Hudi is compatible with a wide array of query engines, catering to various analytical needs. For distributed ETL batch processing, Apache Spark is frequently utilized, leveraging its efficient handling of large-scale data. In the realm of streaming use cases, compute engines such as Apache Flink and Apache Spark provide robust support when paired with Hudi. Moreover, Hudi supports modern data lake query engines such as Trino and Presto, as well as modern analytical databases such as ClickHouse and StarRocks. This diverse support of compute engines positions Apache Hudi as a flexible and adaptable platform for a broad spectrum of use cases.
```

> Apache Hudi is compatible with a wide array of query engines, catering to various analytical needs. For distributed ETL batch processing, Apache Spark is frequently utilized, leveraging its efficient handling of large-scale data. In the realm of streaming use cases, compute engines such as Apache Flink and Spark Structured Streaming provide robust support when paired with Hudi. Moreover, Hudi supports modern data lake query engines such as Trino and Presto, as well as modern analytical databases such as ClickHouse and StarRocks. This diverse support of compute engines positions Apache Hudi as a flexible and adaptable platform for a broad spectrum of use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Hudi is compatible with a wide array of query engines, catering to various analytical needs. For distributed ETL batch processing, Apache Spark is frequently utilized, leveraging its efficient handling of large-scale data. In the realm of streaming use cases, compute engines such as Apache Flink and Apache Spark's Structured Streaming provide robust support when paired with Hudi. Moreover, Hudi supports modern data lake query engines such as Trino and Presto, as well as modern analytical databases such as ClickHouse and StarRocks. This diverse support of compute engines positions Apache Hudi as a flexible and adaptable platform for a broad spectrum of use cases.
```
